upgrade-insecure-requests added to default MV3 CSP (#23114)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mozilla/add-ons/webextensions/content_security_policy/index.md

## Default content security policy

The default content security policy for extensions using Manifest V2 is:

```
"script-src 'self'; object-src 'self';"
```

While for extensions using Manifest V3, the default content security policy is:

```
"script-src 'self'; object-src 'self'; upgrade-insecure-requests;"
```

These policies are applied to any extension that has not explicitly set its own content security policy using the [`content_security_policy`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/manifest.json/content_security_policy) manifest.json key. It has the following consequences:

- [You may only load \<script> and \<object> resources that are local to the extension.](#location_of_script_and_object_resources)
- [The extension is not allowed to evaluate strings as JavaScript.](#eval_and_friends)
- [Inline JavaScript is not executed.](#inline_javascript)
- [WebAssembly cannot be used by default.](#webassembly)

> - in Manifest V3 extensions, user data requests to `http:` are automatically upgraded to use `https:`. Extensions that need to make `http:` requests can opt-out of this behavior by overriding the default CSP using the [`content_security_policy`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/manifest.json/content_security_policy) manifest.json key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Due to presence of {{CSP("upgrade-insecure-requests")}} in the default CSP of Manifest V3 extensions, network requests to `http:` are automatically upgraded to use `https:`. Extensions that need to make `http:` or `ws:` requests can opt-out of this behavior by overriding the default CSP using the [`content_security_policy`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/manifest.json/content_security_policy) manifest.json key with a policy that excludes the `upgrade-insecure-requests` directive.
```

Multiple changes here:

- "user data request" -> "network request" as explained below in the 109 page.
- reference to the CSP directive in use.
- mention of "ws:".

I'd like to see its own section dedicated to this topic, and link that from here, like the others in this bullet list. Then it can more easily be referenced by other documentation, and also include more necessary explanation that is currently missing. See the text underneath the "Upgrade insecure requests – https by default" header at https://blog.mozilla.org/addons/2022/10/31/begin-your-mv3-migration-by-implementing-new-features-today/ for a starting point.

Author: @Rob--W I created a separate section. 

The text you referenced in the blog post didn't seem to include any extra information, except a comment about "provided that no user data is transmitted insecurely through the extension" as a caveat on overriding the default. However, I couldn't see anything explicit in the add-on policies to cover this, is my reference to "Security, Compliance and Blocking" appropriate? 

I was also wondering why you added ws: to the override requirement as the description of the upgrade-insecure-requests directive doesn't mention upgrading these?

For Chrome, extensions cannot use WebAssembly in version 101 or earlier. In 102, extensions can use WebAssembly (the same behavior as Firefox 101 and earlier). From version 103, extensions can use WebAssembly if they include `'wasm-unsafe-eval'` in the `content_security_policy` in the manifest key.

### Upgrade insecure network requests in Manifest V3

> Extensions should use `https:` and `wss:` when communicating with external servers. To support this, the default Manifest V3 CSP includes the {{CSP("upgrade-insecure-requests")}} directive. This directive automatically upgraded network requests to `http:` to use `https:`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extensions should use `https:` and `wss:` when communicating with external servers. To encourage this as the default behavior, the default Manifest V3 CSP includes the {{CSP("upgrade-insecure-requests")}} directive. This directive automatically upgrades network requests to `http:` to use `https:`.

While requests are automatically updated, it is still recommended to use `https:`-URLs in the extension's source code where possible. In particular, entries in the [`host_permissions` section of manifest.json](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/manifest.json/host_permissions) should start with `https://` or `*://` instead of only `http://`.
```

The second paragraph in my suggestion has two parts: (1) the recommendation to use https:-URLs in the source (consistent with the blog that I linked before), and (2) a warning about the need to list not just `http:` but also `https:` in `host_permissions` (or the encompassing wildcard `*://`).
